# iml

## Introduction
Image retrieval is a crucial machine learning task, that is to say, a specific problem or objective that the model is designed to solve. It aims to search for images in a dataset, similar to the features of a given query image.  Its importance is directly connected to the relevance that images have, for the human species, to convey information and thus it is a highly researched field. (Halawani et al., 2006)
A common technique for image retrieval is “text-based image retrieval” (Liu et al., 2007). However, it is not efficient as it forces the programmer to annotate by hand, in just one language,  big databases. Another method is “content-based image retrieval” (CBIR), which relies instead on matching features from the query image to the ones of the given database. The latter is recommended by literature, as more straightforward and reliable (Lu and Weng, 2007). 
CBIR utilizes feature extraction techniques to collect relevant information about the image ( such as color, edge features,  texture features, etc.) and compare it through similarity measures ( such as Euclidean distance, Cosine similarity, Jaccard Similarity, etc.)  to a database of possible matches.
Although it might sound similar to other tasks such as image classification, or object detection, it is a unique approach. In contrast to classification methods that aim to assign labels or categories to images, this task focuses on finding similarities with a query image, given as an input. Object detection, instead, involves using different algorithms and models and attempts to identify and localize specific objects of interest within an image, providing detailed information about their presence and spatial location. (Wan et al., 2014)
